## S3

## Access Control Lists and Policies

S3 provides Access Control Lists (ACL) and policies to control access to S3 resources. ACL's work at the Bucket and Object level and specify a Grantee (which can either be an AWS Canonical User or a Group) and the access permission (READ, WRITE, READ_ACL or WRITE_ACL). Resource Bucket Policies as similar to IAM Policies in that they are JSON based and define an Effect, Action and Resource, but also a User Principal (which points to an IAM principal). 

So:
- ACL's at the Bucket and Object Level (READ / WRITE), performed at a AWS Canonical User or Group level.
- Bucket Policies, similar to IAM Policies, but they specify an IAM Principal.
- 

=======

S3 Access Control Lists (ACL's) apply to S3 Buckets and Objects and manage access to that resource. All Buckets and Objects have an ACL attached. When a request is received for an object, the ACL is checked to ensure that the requester has permissions.

S3 Bucket and Object ACL's are completely independent of each other.

ACL's define a Grantee and a Permission - possible permissions include:
- READ: Allows a grantee to list the objects in a bucket / read an object.
- WRITE: Allows a grantee to create, overwrite or delete an object in a bucket / there is no Object equivalent
- READ_ACP: Allows a grantee to read the bucket ACL / read the object ACL
- WRITE_ACP: Allows a grantee to write to the bucket ACL / write to the object ACL
- FULL_CONTROL: Allows the grantee all of the above control.

## Encryption

Four possible encryption types within S3:

- **SSE-S3**: AWS manages the key management and key protection. Every object is encrypted with a unique data key. The data key is ten encrypted with a separate master key.
- **SSE-KMS**: AWS manages the key management and key protection, with the master key held in KMS. This approach offers greater protection as permissions can be applied to the master key, along with auditing, so you can see who tried to access the object and when they tried to access it. KMS also shows failed attempts to access a key.
- **SSE-C (Customer Provided Keys)**: AWS will perform the encryption/decryption of the objects, however the customer retains full control of the keys.
- **Client Side Encryption**: encryption is performed by the client before it is passed to S3. Similarly, an encrypted object is passed back to the client who decrypts it. Key management is the responsibility of the customer.


## Availability / Durability

The following availability / durability SLA's are published by AWS:

- S3 Standard - 99.999999999 (11 nines) durability / 99.99 availability
- S3-IA - 99.999999999 (11 nines) durability / 99.9 availability (note that this is not the same as S3 Standard)
- RRS - 99.99 durability / 99.99 availability

## S3 Standard-Infrequent Access
- Object must be in this storage class for a minimum of 30 days, otherwise it will be charged for the full period.
- Minimum Object size 128Kb.

## Glacier
- Object must be in this storage class for a minimum of 90 days, otherwise it will be charged for the full period.
- When an object is restored from Glacier, it will create an RRS copy of the Glacier object.
- Object will be restored with a TTL in RRS; once this time is reached, the object will be removed by lifecycle policies.
